Source tag : https://rndwiki.inc.hpicorp.net/confluence/spaces/DataOS/pages/1739269860/NPI+Null+Profiling+Report

Note : This extracted file is generated from SharePoint or Wiki content. If the source document contains images, charts, or graphical elements, they may not be fully converted into Markdown format. For complete clarity, please refer to the original source using the source tag provided above.

# NPI Null Profiling Report

Purpose: Health status check on a device or product family.

Videos by: Josh Yim and Kelton Orth

PDF Guide - by Amrit Agarwal

IMPORTANT: Try running the report the second you're supposed to see data, that way you can check if additional data needs to be generated by the OSV or HSV team. Contact someone from that team to help generate data once you've been able to provide them with the above infromation.

Setting up the Report

1. Find the necessary details for running the report in the assigned ticket. Here's an example. You will need the following details from the ticket before you can start the report.

2. Check the ticket carefully, usually it can be found in attachments or in the parent ticket. If data below is not provided check with Navin Paul M or Reporter of Epic/Story.

- event_type / event_category
- start_date
- end_date
- environment
- latest fwVersion (while this is helpful to have it is often difficult to use in the report repeatedly and may need to be applied later on in the investigation phase)
- product numbers

3. Github will house the most updated profiler tool and rules related to this report.

4. In Databricks, you will need to access the github documents used to run the report.

  - If access permits, try creating a git repo folder in your workspace using a git token. This will allow your info to stay synced and up to date with any changes made to the git repo. Import the documents you need from Github to run your report. Make sure they are in the same folder when you import them as this is required for the profiler tool to run properly.
    - Profiler.py
    - profiler_rules.csv (there may be multiple accompanying rules files depending on the products you're going to be profiling)
  - If step A failed, download the git files you need (Profiler.py and profiler_rules.csv) and import it via the "File" option.

5. Pull down any changes for Main branch within your databricks repo folder

6. If you got the databricks repo folder connected and setup, then make sure you change branches from main to a new branch. Rename it to resemble the report in question (DATAPLAT-2420).

  - If we don't have a profiler_rules.csv file specific to the devices you are testing then you must start with the basic profile_rules.csv.
    - Clone the profiler_rules.csv
    - Rename it to "DEVICE_profile_rules.csv" like "narita_profile_rules.csv"
    - After the reports been run and bugs have filed. Anything we learn will need to be updated to the custom rules document and pushed out to the git repo so our rules continue to improve.

Running the Report

1. Update the widgets or the command in profiler tool with the information from step 1.

  - start_date: "YYYY-MM-DD"
  - end_date: "YYYY-MM-DD"
  - event_type: ("supply", "ltc_domain", "job", or "all").
  - data_filter:
    - specific family, product number list, or latestFwVersion
    - ("event.eventDetail.firmwareVersion LIKE '%6.23%'")
    - ("productNumber in ("1234", "5678")")
    - Leaving this field empty will allow the report to run without any extra filters being applied.
  - queue_path:
    - the actual path belonging to the event_type you wish to check. I recommend using the table to find the platform gun mappings appropriate queue path if you need assistance. If that table results in nothing helpful, I recommend using Opensearch to identify the paths.
  - rules_path:
    - Should contain the csv file pertaining to what you need to check.

2. BEFORE, you run the report be sure to update the environment references from prod to itg (command 7)

3. After Running the report, look for any red flags

  - Check the command(9) that displays the platform_family to ensure that the report was ran against the correct devices
  - Check the command(8) that displays the "Total records after filtering ####". The number shouldn't be too small (10-20) or too large (500,000,000)
  - Check the command(6) that displays the "#### records loaded...". The number shouldn't be too small (10-20) or too large (500,000,000)

Create the Email

1. Once you've run the report, you will download the output from command (14)

  - Click on the table output
  - Select download CSV
  - Select All rows

2. Create an email to send your findings

  - Find the command (13) in the report that contains the ___Run Information___. This should be included in your email draft.
  - Attach the output from command (14)
  - Add the appropriate contacts to the email
    - stakeholders from the request ticket (epic or dosi) that requested the report be created.
      - Reporter, Assignee
    - Our team and Navin Paul M and Pallavi R V
    - NPI Generic Contacts
      - Puneet Jain
      - Paul Hammon
    - NPI Specific Contacts
  - Mention that yourself and your team will investigate any outlying issues and report back.

Rules Explained

1. How do I know which one to use?

  - Check the GitHub link, if there isn't a specific one for the products you've been asked to test then use the standard rules.csv file.

2. When should I update or create a product specific rules.csv?

  - Whenever we receive new information from firmware team that contradicts rules we have in the pre-existing rules file.

3. How to update them?

  - Open GitHub link (DO NOT DO THIS IN DATABRICKS AS EDITING CSV FILES IN DATABRICKS CAUSES ISSUES)
  - Copy rules.csv file or the pre-exisiting rules.csv related to the product family you checked.
  - Rename to something new like, "dune_profiler_rules"
  - make the appropriate changes
  - Have another team member review your changes
  - Save and update Git repo with new file

Report Output Explained

expectation

what we hope to be true

filter

when we hope it to be true

1=1 is essentially saying "always"

passing_percentage

how often our assumption/expectation is correct

out_of

the total number of records that met the condition of the filter.

Videos:

NPI Profiling Report Guides